docs/output-logstash.asciidoc, before:

// :integration: logstash
:plugin: logstash
:type: output
:no_codec:

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Logstash output plugin

// include::{include_path}/plugin_header-integration.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Send events to a <<plugins-outputs-logstash>> in a pipeline that may be in another process or on another host.
You must have a TCP route to the port on an interface that the downstream input is bound to.

NOTE: Sending events to _any_ destination other than <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> is neither advised nor supported.
      We will maintain cross-compatibility with any two supported versions of output/input pair and reserve the right to change details such as protocol and encoding.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-minimum-config"]
===== Minimum Configuration
[cols="2a,2a"]
|=======================================================================================================================
|SSL Enabled              |SSL Disabled

|

[source]
----
output {
  logstash {
    host => "10.0.0.123"
    port => 8080
  }
}
----

|

[source]
----
output {
  logstash {
    host => "10.0.0.123"
    port => 8080
    ssl_enabled
         => false
  }
}
----

|=======================================================================================================================

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-connecting"]
===== Configuration Concepts

This output plugin needs to be configured to connect to a <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> by specifying its <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>>.
Depending on the downstream plugin's configuration, you may need to also configure SSL and/or credentials.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust"]
===== Security: SSL Trust

When communicating over SSL, this plugin establishes trust of the server it connects to before transmitting credentials or events.

It does so by ensuring that the server presents a currently-valid certificate with identity claims matching the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> we are configured to connect to, signed by a trusted signing authority, along with proof-of-possession of the associated private key material.

The system trust store is used by default.
You can provide an _alternate_ source of trust with _ONE OF_:

* A PEM-formatted list of trusted certificate authorities (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities>>)
* A PKCS12- or JKS-formatted truststore (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-identity"]
===== Security: SSL Identity

If the downstream input plugin is configured to request or require client authentication, you can configure this plugin to provide its proof-of-identity with _ONE OF_:

* JKS- or PKCS12-formatted Keystore (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>)
* PKCS8-formatted Certificate/Key pair (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>>)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-credentials"]
===== Security: Credentials

If the downstream <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> is configured to require <<plugins-inputs-logstash-username>> and <<plugins-inputs-logstash-password>>,
you will need to configure this output with a matching <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>>.

NOTE: when SSL is disabled, data and credentials will be transmitted in clear-text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Logstash Output Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting                            |Input type        |Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> |<<string,string>> |Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>> |<<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>> |<<number,number>> |Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_enabled>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities>> |list of <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password>> | <<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_password>> | <<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode>> | <<string,string>>, one of `["full", "none"]`|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> |<<string,string>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
output plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host"]
===== `host`

* Value type is a <<string,string>> ip address or hostname
* There is no default value

Specify which host to connect to by providing its ip address or resolvable hostname.

NOTE: when using SSL, the server that responds must present a certificated with identity claim matching this host name or ip address.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port"]
===== `port`

* Value type is a <<number,number>> port
* There is no default value

Specify which port to connect to.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password"]
===== `password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> is configured.

Password for password-based authentication.

When the downstream input plugin is configured with a `username` and `password`, you must also configure upstream outputs with a matching `username`/`password` pair.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_enabled"]
===== `ssl_enabled`

* Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
* Default value is `true`

Logstash-to-Logstash communication is secured by default.
When the downstream input plugin disables SSL, it must also be disabled here.

You can disable SSL with `+ssl_enabled => false+`. When disabled, setting any `ssl_*` configuration causes configuration failure.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate"]
===== `ssl_certificate`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Path to a PEM-encoded certificate or certificate chain with which to identify this plugin to connecting clients.
The certificate _SHOULD_ include identity claims about the ip address or hostname that clients use to establish a connection.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities"]
===== `ssl_certificate_authorities`

* Value type is a <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.
* Cannot be combined with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode, `+ssl_verification_mode => none+`>>.

One or more PEM-encoded files defining certificate authorities for use in client authentication.
This setting can be used to _override_ the system trust store for verifying the SSL certificate presented by clients.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key"]
===== `ssl_key`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

A path to an PEM-encoded _unencrypted_ PKCS8 SSL certificate key.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path"]
===== `ssl_keystore_path`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

A path to a JKS- or PKCS12-formatted keystore with which to identify this plugin to the downstream input.
The provided identity will be used if the downstream input enables <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust,SSL client authentication>>.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password"]
===== `ssl_keystore_password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Password for the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path"]
===== `ssl_truststore_path`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.
* Cannot be combined with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode, `+ssl_verification_mode => none+`>>.

A path to a JKS- or PKCS12-formatted truststore with which to validate the identity claims of the downstream input.
The provided identity will be used if the downstream input enables <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust,SSL client authentication>>.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_password"]
===== `ssl_truststore_password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Password for the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode"]
===== `ssl_verification_mode`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* The supported modes are:
** `full`: verifies that a certificate provided by the client has an identity claim matching <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>>, is signed by a trusted authority (CA), is within its valid date range, and that the client has possession of the associated key.
** `none`: performs no validation of the presented certificate

* The default value is `full`.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

When <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_client_authentication>> causes a client to present a certificate, this setting controls how that certificate is verified.

NOTE: Client identity is not typically validated using SSL because the receiving server only has access to the client's outbound-ip, which is not always constant and is frequently not represented in the certificate's subject or subjectAltNames extensions.
For more information, see https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2818#section-3.1[RFC2818 § 3.2 (HTTP over TLS -- Client Identity)]

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username"]
===== `username`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>> is also required.

Username for password-based authentication.

When the downstream input plugin is configured with a `username` and `password`, you must also configure upstream outputs with a matching `username`/`password` pair.

NOTE: when SSL is disabled, credentials will be transmitted in clear-text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
// include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]

:default_codec!:

Commit message:

Revise docs, http-input/output dependency requires specific version to reflect SSL standardization changes, add changelog.

docs/output-logstash.asciidoc, after:

// :integration: logstash
:plugin: logstash
:type: output
:no_codec:

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Logstash output plugin

// include::{include_path}/plugin_header-integration.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Send events to a <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> in a pipeline that may be in another process or on another host.
You must have a TCP route to the port on an interface that the downstream input is bound to.

NOTE: Sending events to _any_ destination other than <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> is neither advised nor supported.
      We will maintain cross-compatibility with any two supported versions of output/input pair and reserve the right to change details such as protocol and encoding.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-minimum-config"]
===== Minimum Configuration
[cols="2a,2a"]
|=======================================================================================================================
|SSL Enabled              |SSL Disabled

|

[source]
----
output {
  logstash {
    host => "10.0.0.123"
    port => 8080
  }
}
----

|

[source]
----
output {
  logstash {
    host => "10.0.0.123"
    port => 8080
    ssl_enabled
         => false
  }
}
----

|=======================================================================================================================

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-connecting"]
===== Configuration Concepts

This output plugin needs to be configured to connect to a <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> by specifying its <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>>.
Depending on the downstream plugin's configuration, you may need to also configure SSL and/or credentials.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust"]
===== Security: SSL Trust

When communicating over SSL, this plugin establishes trust of the server it connects to before transmitting credentials or events.

It does so by ensuring that the server presents a currently-valid certificate with identity claims matching the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> we are configured to connect to, signed by a trusted signing authority, along with proof-of-possession of the associated private key material.

The system trust store is used by default.
You can provide an _alternate_ source of trust with _ONE OF_:

* A PEM-formatted list of trusted certificate authorities (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities>>)
* A PKCS12- or JKS-formatted truststore (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-identity"]
===== Security: SSL Identity

If the downstream input plugin is configured to request or require client authentication, you can configure this plugin to provide its proof-of-identity with _ONE OF_:

* JKS- or PKCS12-formatted Keystore (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>)
* PKCS8-formatted Certificate/Key pair (see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>>)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-credentials"]
===== Security: Credentials

If the downstream <<plugins-inputs-logstash>> is configured to require <<plugins-inputs-logstash-username>> and <<plugins-inputs-logstash-password>>,
you will need to configure this output with a matching <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>>.

NOTE: when SSL is disabled, data and credentials will be transmitted in clear-text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Logstash Output Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting                            |Input type        |Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> |<<string,string>> |Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>> |<<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>> |<<number,number>> |Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_enabled>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities>> |list of <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password>> | <<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>> | <<path,path>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_password>> | <<password,password>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode>> | <<string,string>>, one of `["full", "none"]`|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> |<<string,string>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
output plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host"]
===== `host`

* Value type is a <<string,string>> ip address or hostname
* There is no default value

Specify which host to connect to by providing its ip address or resolvable hostname.

NOTE: when using SSL, the server that responds must present a certificated with identity claim matching this host name or ip address.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port"]
===== `port`

* Value type is a <<number,number>> port
* There is no default value

Specify which port to connect to.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password"]
===== `password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username>> is configured.

Password for password-based authentication.

When the downstream input plugin is configured with a `username` and `password`, you must also configure upstream outputs with a matching `username`/`password` pair.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_enabled"]
===== `ssl_enabled`

* Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
* Default value is `true`

Logstash-to-Logstash communication is secured by default.
When the downstream input plugin disables SSL, it must also be disabled here.

You can disable SSL with `+ssl_enabled => false+`. When disabled, setting any `ssl_*` configuration causes configuration failure.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate"]
===== `ssl_certificate`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Path to a PEM-encoded certificate or certificate chain with which to identify this plugin to connecting downstream input.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate_authorities"]
===== `ssl_certificate_authorities`

* Value type is a <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.
* Cannot be combined with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode, `+ssl_verification_mode => none+`>>.

One or more PEM-encoded files defining certificate authorities for use in downstream input authentication.
This setting can be used to _override_ the system trust store for verifying the SSL certificate presented by downstream input.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_key"]
===== `ssl_key`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_certificate>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

A path to an PEM-encoded _unencrypted_ PKCS8 SSL certificate key.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path"]
===== `ssl_keystore_path`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

A path to a JKS- or PKCS12-formatted keystore with which to identify this plugin to the downstream input.
The provided identity will be used if the downstream input enables <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust,SSL client authentication>>.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_password"]
===== `ssl_keystore_password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Password for the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_keystore_path>>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path"]
===== `ssl_truststore_path`

* Value type is <<path,path>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>> is also required.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.
* Cannot be combined with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode, `+ssl_verification_mode => none+`>>.

A path to a JKS- or PKCS12-formatted truststore with which to validate the identity claims of the downstream input.
The provided identity will be used if the downstream input enables <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-config-ssl-trust,SSL client authentication>>.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_password"]
===== `ssl_truststore_password`

* Value type is <<password,password>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* Required when connection identity is configured with <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

Password for the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_truststore_path>>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ssl_verification_mode"]
===== `ssl_verification_mode`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* The supported modes are:
** `full`: verifies that a certificate provided by the client has an identity claim matching <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>>, is signed by a trusted authority (CA), is within its valid date range, and that the client has possession of the associated key.
** `none`: performs no validation of the presented certificate

* The default value is `full`.
* Cannot be combined with configurations that disable SSL.

When communicating over SSL, this setting controls how the downstream input's certificate is verified.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-username"]
===== `username`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* When present, <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-password>> is also required.

Username for password-based authentication.

When the downstream input plugin is configured with a `username` and `password`, you must also configure upstream outputs with a matching `username`/`password` pair.

NOTE: when SSL is disabled, credentials will be transmitted in clear-text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
// include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]

:default_codec!:
